research has shown that there are huge
benefits both for the baby and mother in
holding newborn skin-to-skin so today we
wanted to talk about holding babies
skin-to-skin I don't know what you've
heard about skin-to-skin so far but it's
something that we have come to learn
from the research it's so valuable for
babies if you'd like I'd like to help
you put Scylla skin-to-skin ok the area
right between your breasts is the
warmest area on your body so ok one
concern a lot of mothers have is is my
baby warm because there's always been
that focus keep babies warm keep them
dressed up yes she will be warm because
your body will heat up to warm her to a
perfect temperature we used to think
that warmers and incubators were the
best place to put babies now we know a
mother's body is the best place all
right besides warming her up
should she become too warm your body
will cool off to cool her to the perfect
temperature as well so besides making
this beautiful baby your body is
incredibly powerful ok the other thing
this does is helps kyla learn how to
latch on to the breast see how she's
bobbing her head like that she's trying
to find your breast on
her own babies have this instinctual
behavior yep she's searching and she's
trying to get herself down to the breast
besides helping with breast feeding the
other reason we recommend skin-to-skin
and we want her down to do skin-to-skin
also is when babies are held like this
they cry less overall they sleep better
overall their stress hormones Aloha we
all have high cortisol levels because of
the stress in our lives this decreases
the baby stress levels helps them to
adjust to life outside the womb and
their brains mature faster if you can
believe it they're just starting to make
those little synapses in the brain and
her brain will mature faster her central
nervous system will mature faster
because she's held skin-to-skin every
day by you and her dad all right
so however she's feeding this is a
wonderful way to care for her her first
few months of life if you need help or
advice with breastfeeding call one of
the lactation consultants on the warm
line at one eight hundred seven one
seven zero one one or speak with your
pediatrician additional resources are
available on our website at women and
infants dot-org
you